Jehovah’s people have always considered
the studying of his Word
to be an essential part of life.
God’s Law to Israel commanded
that the king “must read from [the Law]
all the days of his life, so that he
may learn to fear Jehovah his God.”
In the Mayan territories
of Yucatán, Mexico,
our brothers are helping people
learn to read God’s Word for themselves.
People’s lives change when they
can finally read the Bible on their own
and more readily ‘learn
to fear Jehovah their God.’
One out of every six people on earth
doesn’t know how to read.
Jehovah’s Witnesses
around the world
have organized literacy classes
to help such ones.
I don’t like to read.
I used to sleep at the meetings.
In our territory,
most people speak the Mayan language,
but very few can read it.
On occasion I would give a talk,
and when I would
cite a scripture,
most of the audience would look it up.
But then I would see
a blank stare on their faces
because they
couldn’t read the text.
I was moved
to learn how to read
because I wanted to learn about Jehovah
and study his Word, the Bible.
So a sister came
to my house to teach me.
Literacy classes are often conducted
on an individual level.
After a person has had their Bible study,
they can spend some time
to practice reading skills.
But when
the local elders notice
that there are many
that can benefit from this training,
they can schedule
a larger class
at the Kingdom Hall.
The study material used
for this purpose is the brochure
Apply Yourself to Reading and Writing.
It’s available in 30 languages
in the Central America branch territory.
Other study materials can be used
as well, as long as they help
the development of the students
enrolled in the class.
And we use a board
on which we write,
for instance, words
that are difficult to pronounce.
This helps in the reading
of complicated words.
There are some who are,
well, very quick learners.
On the other hand,
others go word by word.
But as they practice,
they start getting the hang of it.
I’m good at masonry work,
but learning to read
is not easy.
Reading at his age
is a big challenge.
You need to understand
that each student learns differently.
With some,
you need to be very patient.
The first word
I learned to write was Jehovah.
“It’s like this,” I tell him.
He says, “It’s ‘cause
you’re not being patient with me!”
Having a sense of humor
is a big help in the learning process,
so as not to focus
on errors and mistakes.
Since 1946, when records
began being taken in Mexico,
more than 152,000 people
have learned to read and write,
thanks to these training efforts.
The Secretary of Public Education
in the State of Mexico
has recognized the work and the great help
these literacy classes
have been to the local citizens.
The skills they learn
help in their day-to-day life,
but also it helps them
to learn more about Jehovah
and to be able to teach others.
I used to have to memorize
everything I was going to say,
but now I can read
short scriptures to people
directly from the Bible.
As the students progress
in the class, they demonstrate
the words found
at 1 Timothy 4:15,
which says in part
“so that your advancement
may be plainly seen by all people.”
And these benefits
are plainly seen in the students.
My husband was an alcoholic,
he smoked,
and he used bad language.
But he made big changes
in his life,
and we see that this training
has been a big help.
We really see
these great blessings.
Reading helped me
to get baptized.
Helping other people
to improve their reading skills
makes me feel very happy.
I feel great because I see
on their face the joy they get
from reading and understanding
the information.
Well, I’ve benefited so much.
For instance,
now we read the Bible
together as a family.
It makes me very happy.
We’re more united as a family.
Our children
respect my husband more,
like the father he is.
Now I’m a ministerial servant.
When I go preaching
door to door,
some people say,
“I don’t know how to read.”
But then I tell them,
“I didn’t know either,
but I learned about Jehovah.
And you can too!”
If I learned to read,
anybody can.